In this lesson we're going to continue
building the name class.
This time we're going to add a couple of
methods to the definition that allow
us to display a name, once the name has
been entered in using the constructor.
The first method we're going to look at
for doing that.
Well, first of all let me say that I have
started a
new program called nameone.py, and simply
copied the contents of name.py into
nameone.
So the first method we're going to look at
is a special method that's commonly called
a twostring method.
And the two string method allows us to
examine the current state of
a class object or at least display the
current state of a class
object so the way we write this method is
we start out with
two double underscores followed by the
letters STR followed by two more
underscores.
And then its only parameter will be self,
so that we can refer to the current
instance.
And again, what this method does is, it
will
display the current state of an object, so
what
we want to do is, is we want to return the
fields that make up the name class.
So we're going to write return self.
First, plus a space, plus self.middle,
plus a space, plus self.
last.
So the way the two-string method works is
that when we want to display a name,
we can simply write print, in this case,
aName is a name that we created.
And that will display Mary Elizabeth
Smith.
Let me show you how that works.
We'll save it.
Let's clear the screen here and we'll type
nameone.py and
you'll see Mary Elizabeth Smith comes up
on the screen.
And of course I could of put a little
prompt before that, something like that,
if I'd wanted to.
Let's just show how that'll look.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Made
one little mistake, left out the string,
function.
Now we'll try it again.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
There
we go.
So, the 2-string method, or just "string"
can be
used to display the current state of the
object.
Now, for a name we might also
want to, besides displaying the name:
first, middle,
last; we might also want to create out own
method, and we'll call it: "last first."
And what it's going to do is it's going to
return the last name.
Followed by a comma, followed by the first
name, followed
by a space, followed by the middle name,
like so.
And
the way we would call that method is we
would say a name, dot, last first.
So let's save our program, go back to our
command prompt.
Run name 1 and so there we see the
last name first as being Smith comma Marry
Elizabeth.
Lets try one more example.
We might want to display the initials of a
name.
So to do that would say return, self first
sub zero.
Plus, self.middle subzero
plus self.last subzero.
Here we can say print aName.initials just
like so.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Back
to our command prompt.
Run nameone.py, and there we see the
initials MES.
So
what we've learned in this lesson is how
to create methods that give us access
to the data stored in a class and let us
return that data in some way.
And with that, we're ready to move to the
next lesson.
Where we're going to create a new class
that's going to be a bit more
complex because I'm going to show you how
to use a data structure as a field.
So that we can store a set of data in a
field rather
than just a single value like we've done
here with first, middle and last.
So what we're going to do is we're going
to
create a student object and that student
object will contain
not only the student's name and their I.D.
number but
also a list of grades for the courses that
they take.
And we're going to see how to do that in
the next lesson.